 I have the pleasure to present to you not to Martin Luther King. Dear God! Yes! Yes! Yes! Yes! Yes! Yes! Yes! Yes! I am happy to join with you today. In what will go down in history as the greatest demonstration for freedom in the history of our nation. Five score years ago, a great American in whose symbolic shadow we stand today, signed the emancipation proclamation. This momentous decree came as a great beacon light of hope to millions of Negro slaves, who had been seared in the flames of withering injustice. It came as a joyous daybreak to end the long night of their captivity, but 100 years later, the Negro still is not free. One hundred years later, the life of the Negro is still sat-lic-crippled by the Manacles of segregation and the chains of discrimination. One hundred years later, the Negro lives on a lonely island of poverty. In the midst of a vast ocean of material prosperity, one hundred years later, the Negro is still languished in the corners of American society and finds himself an exile in his own land. So we've come here today to dramatize a shameful condition. In a sense, we've come to our nation's capital to cash a check. When the architects of our republic wrote the magnificent words of the Constitution and the Declaration of Independence, they were signing a promise or a note to which everyone American was to fall out. This note was a promise at all, man. Yes, black men as well as white men. Would be guaranteed the unalienable rights of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. It is obvious today that America has defaulted on this promise or in oath, in so far as her citizens of color are concerned. Instead of honoring this secular obligation, America has given the Negro people a bad check. A check which has come back more insufficient from. But we refuse to believe that the Bank of Justice is bankrupt. We refuse to believe that our insufficient funds and the great bolts of opportunity of this nation. So we've come to cash this check or check that we'll give us a pun demand, the riches of freedom and the security of justice. We have also come to this hell of spot to remind America of the fierce urgency of now. This is no time to engage in the luxury of cooling off or to take the tranquilizing drug of the gradualism. Now is the time to make real the promises of democracy. Now is the time to rise from the dark and desolate valley of segregation to the sunlit path of racial justice. Now is the time to lift our nation from the quicksands of racial injustice to the solid rocker brotherhood. Now is the time to make justice a reality for all of God's children. It would be fatal for the nation to overlook the urgency of the moment. This sweltering summer of the Negro's legitimate discontent will not pass until that is an invigorating autumn of freedom and equality. 1963 is not an end but a beginning. Those who hope that the Negro needed to blow off steam and will now be content. We'll have a rude awakening if the nation returns to business as usual. Now will be neither rest nor tranquility in America until the Negro is granted his citizenship rights. The whirlwinds are revolving continue to shake the foundations of our nation until the bright day of justice emerges. But that is something that I must say to my people who stand on the warm threshold which leads them to the palace of justice and the process of gaining our right for place. We must not be guilty of wrongful deeds that have not seen the same far first for freedom. By drinking from the couple of business and hatred. We must not stop all the bad things of the indigenous people. We must not allow our free and important to degenerate into physical power. Here and again we must rise to the logistics heights of meeting physical force with so force. The marvelous new militancy which has been adopted in the whole community. Well not lead us to wait as close to all white people. We'll may allow white folks as heavily inspired by our presidency of today and from the realize that that is the power of the United States. Yes. We have come to our left, we know that it is trick of the thumbs, the loud, we cannot walk alone. As we walk, we must make the plans to be shall always march ahead. We cannot turn back. Now those who are asking the deputies of civil rights will be set as far. We can live these satisfied, long as the deputies will pick up all young people, all the hours of the least of the hellers. We can never decide as far. As long as our body and his unit with a petite travel, they're not getting marching in the motels of our highways and the whole care of the city. APPLAUSE We cannot be satisfied as long as the deputies in Mississippi cannot vote. And the deputies knew your felices. He has nothing for which to vote. APPLAUSE APPLAUSE APPLAUSE No. No, we are not satisfied and we will not be satisfied until justice rolls down like waters and righteousness like a mighty street. APPLAUSE APPLAUSE APPLAUSE APPLAUSE APPLAUSE I'm not my unmindful. At some of you have come here, out of great trials and tribulations. APPLAUSE Some of you have come fresh from now, a jail sale. APPLAUSE Some of you have come from areas where you're pressed quest for freedom. Left you battered by the storms of persecution. APPLAUSE And staggered by the winds of police brutality. You have been the veterans of creative suffering and continue to work with the faith that our own suffering is redemptive. Go back to Mississippi. Go back to Alabama, go back to South Carolina, go back to Georgia, go back to Louisiana, go back to the slums and get to Oslo, Northern cities. Knowing that somehow this situation can and will be changed. Let us not walla in the valley of despair. I say to you today, my friend. APPLAUSE APPLAUSE APPLAUSE So even though we face the difficulties of today and tomorrow, I still have a dream. Yes. It is a dream deeply rooted in the American dream. I have a dream. Good one day. Yes. This nation will rise up. Live out the true meaning of its dream. We hold these truths to be self-evident that all men are created. Yes. APPLAUSE I have a dream that one day on the red hills of Georgia, the suns of former slaves and the suns of former slave owners will be able to sit down together to table a brotherhood. I have a dream that one day, even the state of Mississippi, a state sweltering with the heater in justice, sweltering with the heat of oppression, be transformed into an oasis of freedom in justice. I have a dream. APPLAUSE And my four little children, one day, live in a nation where they will not be judged by the color of their skin, but by the content of their character. I have a dream today. APPLAUSE I have a dream that one day, down in Alabama with its vicious racist, with its governor having his lips tripping with the words of hit-a-position and nullification. One day right there in Alabama, a little black bars and black girls will be able to join hands with the white bars and white girls, as sisters and brothers. I have a dream today. APPLAUSE I have a dream that one day, every valley shall be exalted. Never healed in mountains, so be made low. The rough places will be made plain, and the crooked faces will be made straight. And the girl of the Lord shall be revealed in all flesh. She'll see it together. This is our hope. This is the faith that I go back to the south with. With this faith, we will be able to hear out of the mountain of despair, a stone of hope. With this faith, we will be able to transform the tangling discord of our nation into a beautiful symphony of brotherhood. With this faith, we will be able to work together to pray together, to struggle together, to go to jail together, to stand up for freedom together, knowing that we will be free one day. APPLAUSE This will be the day. APPLAUSE This will be the day when all of God's children. Yes? We'll be able to sing with new meaning my country tears of the sweet land of liberty of the our sing. Oh, God! Land where my fathers died, land of the Pilgrims' pride. From every mountain side, let freedom ring in the Americas to be a bright nation. This must become true. So let freedom ring. From the prodigious hilltops of New Hampshire. Let freedom ring. From the mighty mountains of New York. Let freedom ring from the heightening alligators of Pennsylvania. Let freedom ring from the snow cap lockers of Colorado. Let freedom ring from the crevice of sorts of California. But not only that, let freedom ring from stone mountain of Georgia. Let freedom ring from lookout mountain of Tennessee. Let freedom ring from every hill and low hill of Mississippi. From every mountain side. Let freedom ring and wind is happen. APPLAUSE When we allow freedom ring. When we let it ring from every village and every hamlet, from every state and every city, we will be able to speed up that day when all of God's children black men and white men choose and chantiles, Protestants and Catholics will be able to join hands and sing in the words of the only hope spiritual. Pre-adlast, pre-adlast, take God Almighty, we'll clear man. APPLAUSE APPLAUSE APPLAUSE APPLAUSE APPLAUSE APPLAUSE APPLAUSE APPLAUSE