 I have the pleasure to present to you not to Martin Luther King, dear. I am happy to join with you today in what will go down in history as the greatest demonstration for freedom in the history of our nation. Five score years ago, a great American in whose symbolic shadow we stand today, signed the emancipation proclamation. This momentous decree came as a great beacon light of hope to millions of Negro slaves who had been seared in the flames of withering injustice. It came as a joyous daybreak to end the long night of their captivity, but 100 years later, the Negro still is not free. One hundred years later, the life of the Negro is still sadly crippled by the manacles of segregation and the chains of discrimination, one hundred years later. The Negro lives on a lonely island of poverty, in the midst of a vast ocean of material prosperity, one hundred years later. The Negro is still languished in the corners of American society and finds himself an exile in his own land. And so we've come here today to dramatize a shameful condition. In a sense, we've come to our nation's capital to cash a check. When the architects of our Republic wrote the magnificent words of the Constitution and the Declaration of Independence, they were signing a promise or a note to which Abraham was to fall out. This note was a promise at all men. Yes, black men as well as white men would be guaranteed the unalienable rights of life liberty and the pursuit of happiness. It is obvious today that America has defaulted on this promise or in oath, in so far as her citizens of color are concerned. Instead of honoring this secular obligation, America has given the Negro people a bad check. A check which has come back more insufficient from. But we refuse to believe that the Bank of Justice is bankrupt. We refuse to believe that our insufficient funds and the great bolts of opportunity of this nation. So we've come to cash this check or check that we'll give us a pun demand, the riches of freedom and the security of justice. We have also come to this hell of spot to remind America of the fierce urgency of now. This is no time to engage in the luxury of cooling off or to take the tranquilizing drug of gradualism. Now is the time to make real the promises of democracy. Now is the time to rise from the dark and desolate valley of segregation to the sunlit path of racial justice. Now is the time to lift our nation from the quicksands of racial injustice to the solid rocker brotherhood. Now is the time to make justice a reality for all of God's children. It would be fatal for the nation to overlook the urgency of the moment. This sweltering summer of the Negroes, legitimate discontent will not pass until that is an invigorating autumn of freedom and equality. 1963 is not an end but a beginning. Those who hope that the Negro needed to blow off steam and will now be content will have a rude awakening if the nation returns to business as usual. Now will be neither rest nor tranquility in America until the Negroes granted his citizenship rights. The whirlwinds are revolving continue to shake the foundations of our nation until the bright day of justice emerges. But that is something that I must say to my people who stand on the warm threshold which leads into the palace of justice and the process of gaining our right for place. We must not be guilty of wrongful deeds. Let us not seek the same path first for freedom by drinking from the couple of business and hatred. However, we have gone from the last go all the by playing with Candace suicide. We must not allow our reign and protest. to the General Agent of Physical Mouth. Again and again, we have rise to the logistics heights of meeting physical force with sole force. The model is new militancy, which has been adopted in the whole community. It must not lead us to wait as close to all white people. We'll make our white folks a little bit inspired by their presidency of today, but from the realize that they are sent to the House. And from the realize that we are sending strict outcomes to the House, we cannot walk alone. As we walk, we must make the plans that we shall always march ahead. We cannot turn back. There are those lasting deputies and civil rights, when will you be satisfied? We can live these satisfied, long as the people is a big, and all young, spiritual, hours of least in hell. We can never be satisfied. And long in our body and kitchen with a petite travel. We cannot gain margin in the more careful our highways and the whole careful with the city. We cannot be satisfied as long as the people in Mississippi cannot vote. And the people in New York believes he has nothing for which to vote. We are not satisfied and we will not be satisfied until justice rolls down like waters and righteousness like a mighty street. I am not mindful that some of you have come here out of great trials and tribulations. Some of you have come fresh from now or jail sale. Some of you have come from areas where you are pressed for freedom. Left you battered by the storms of persecution. And staggered by the winds of police brutality. You have been the veterans of creative suffering. Continue to work with the faith that online suffering is redemptive. Go back to Mississippi. Go back to Alabama. Go back to South Carolina. Go back to Georgia. Go back to Louisiana. Go back to the slums and get to Oslo Northern cities. Knowing that somehow this situation can and will be changed. Let us not walla in the valley of despair. I say to you today my friend. So even though we face the difficulties of today and tomorrow, I still have a dream. It is a dream deeply rooted in the American dream. I have a dream. But one day this nation will rise up. Live out the true meaning of its dream. We hold these truths to be self-evident that all men are created. I have a dream. The one day on the red hills of Georgia. The sun's the former slaves and the sun's the former slave owners. We'll be able to sit down together to table the brotherhood. I have a dream. Good one day. Even the state of Mississippi are state sweltering with the heater in justice. Swertering with the heat of oppression. Be transformed into an oasis of freedom in justice. I have a dream. I fall little children. One day, live in a nation where they will love the judge by the color of their skin. But by the content of their character. I have a dream today. I have a dream that one day. In Alabama with its vicious racists. With its governor having his lips tripping with the words of its position in the nullification. One day right there in Alabama, little black bars and black girls, will be able to join hands with the white bars and white girls as sisters and brothers. I have a dream today. I have a dream that one day every valley shall be exalted. Never healed in mountains of be made. Law the rough places will be made plain. And the crooked faces will be made straight. And the girl of the Lord shall be revealed in all flesh. She'll see it together. This is our hope. This is the faith that I go back to the summer. With this faith. We will be able to hear out of the mountain of despair a stone of hope. With this faith. We will be able to transform the tangling discord of our nation into a beautiful sinfony above her. With this faith. We will be able to work together to pray together to struggle together. To go to jail together. To stand up for free. To know that we will be free one day. This will be the day. This will be the day when all of God's children. Be able to sing with new meaning. My country tears of the sweet land of liberty of the are sing. Land where my father's died. Land of the pilgrims, rhyme. From every mountain side. Let freedom ring. And the America is to be a break nation. This must become true. So let freedom ring. From the prodigious hill tops of New Hampshire. Let freedom ring. From the mighty mountains of New York. Let freedom ring from the heightening Alleghenius of Pennsylvania. No cap work is a Colorado. Let freedom reign from the crevice of sorts of California. But not only that, let freedom reign from stone mountain of Georgia. Let freedom reign from lookout mountain of Tennessee. Let freedom reign from every hill and more hill of Mississippi from every mountain side. freedom reign and when this happens when we allow freedom reign, when we let it reign from every village and every hamlet, from every state and every city, we will be able to speed up that day when all of God's children, black men and white men, Jews and Gentiles, Protestants and Catholics will be able to join hands and sing in the words of the only real spiritual, real last, real last, thank God Almighty, we'll